
<p>
* Submission Due : June 5, Friday
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Presentation : June 10 Wed or 12 Fri</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Evaluation : Demo + Presentation + Final Document (Design / implementation / Test Report)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Project Description</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Goal is to develop a DSM tool helping the software designers to understand the overall dependencies of the software modules so that they can manage/improve the software design. Its basic functionalities include edit and visualize DSM. You may want to refer to a similar extant product such as Titan which you can download from the eclass website. (Go to class materials for DSM tutorial - Titan)</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Titan is a DSM viewer tool that accepts DSM(.dsm) files. After opening a DSM, the user can also load a clustering file(.clsx) to order the DSM in the predefined order. Or, the user can cluster the DSM using the <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> of Titan and save the clustering into a .clsx file</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Submission Materials</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Final document</div>
<ul>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> program description</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> overall design (class diagrams, sequence diagrams, etc)</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> must explain how MVC architectural pattern was applied to your design</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> must explain major design decisions you made and their pros/cons</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> must explain how your program was tested</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> must explain how object-oriented design principles were applied to your program</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> usage of your program and the screen shots of examples</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> I/O Requirement</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Your program should be able to read .dsm and .clsx files which are generated by Titan. Refer to the samples in “data dir” for detailed file foramt. Also, the .dsm and .clsx files generated by your program should be readable by Titan, too. </div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Functional Requirement</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> On top of the functions provided in Titan, there are two major extensions to Titan for this term project</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> (1) Your program should allow the user to edit (i.e., add and delete) the dependencies between the modules and edit (i.e., add, delete, rename) the modules.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> (2) Your program should provide the functionality of duplicate/fork a subsystem. (See the description for Right-click at group in left panel)</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
