
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="section2010">2010</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 1 </div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> (1) Maintenance is defined as modification of a software product after delivery to correct faults to improve performance, or to adapt the product to a modified environment. Maintenance is considered to be the most costing part of the software life cycle</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> (2) Inheritance is the software feature to be able to reuse the existing code instead of creating new code when moving software from one environment (platform) to another.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> (3) Structured programming involves the splitting of complex program tasks into smaller pieces with clear flow-control and interfaces between components</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> (4) The advantage of using data encapsulation comes when the implementation of the class changes but the interface remains the same</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> (5) Assertion contains a boolean expression that you believe will be true when the assertion executes. If it is not true, the system will throw an error. By verifying that the boolean expression is indeed true, the assertion confirms your assumptions about the behavior of your program, increasing your confidence that the program is free of errors.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Experience has shown that writing assertions while programming is one of the quickest and most effective ways to detect and correct bugs.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> (6) A good software design recognizes the inevitability of changes and plans an accommodation for them from the very beginning</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> (7) If you need to write a copy constructor, you also need to write a destructor and operator=</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li">  it&#039;s because you need something like a deep copy, or some other management of resources. Thus is is almost certain that you will need a destructor and override the assignment operator.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
